---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

# Week1: What is Open Source?

As a computer science student, I've often heard the term "**Open Source**". Based on *my understanding*, "Open Source" refers to <u>software code</u> that can be <u>read</u>, <u>modified</u>, and <u>distributed</u> by <u>anyone</u>. The idea of ***sharing*** code and ***working together*** as a community to <u>develop</u> and <u>improve</u> software was very appealing to me. However, I've never tried contributing to an open source project due to *worries* and *uncertainty*, such as "What if I misunderstand the code and contribute in the wrong way, taking up valuable time," or "What if my question is silly." Therefore, I decided to take this class to learn more about <u>what open source is</u> and how to <u>properly contribute</u> to projects.

"Open source" is often portrayed as having only positive attributes. Developers can learn and study by reading the source code, and companies or open source project holders can receive community contributions without paying any money. However, it also has several disadvantages. Let's examine both the advantages and disadvantages.

- **Advantages**

  - With many people joining the project, unexpected solutions can arise at a fast pace.
  - The open-source code allows the community to learn a lot by reading it.
  - With many contributors, the project becomes flexible and scalable.

  **Disadvantages**

  - This can be slightly risky, as everyone can see the source code and its flaws. While it's ideal to fix them, some people might misuse the information.
  - There is no documented file or site for the code, making it difficult for users to fully understand it.
  - There is no definite timeline for tasks to be completed, so one may have to wait for the community to solve an issue, or it may never be solved if the project isn't popular enough.

## Open Source Project Examples

### Git

Git is a version control system that efficiently handles projects of all sizes, from small to large. When I work on coding projects with friends or want to track my progress, I use Git. When I first realized that Git is open-source, I thought, "That's why this software is so well-made." I can compare my current work with previous versions and merge the work of other group members without much effort.

### OpenStreetMap

OpenStreetMap is a free and editable map of the entire world, built by volunteers. I haven't used this source, but I've seen many people use it when they need geographical information for their coding projects. It's considered a reliable source. After hearing Prof. Klukowska's story about an island that has information on OpenStreetMap but not on Google Maps, I realized that group work can sometimes be better than one professional's work.

### Wikipedia

According to their website, Wikipedia is a free, multilingual online encyclopedia that is written and maintained by a community through open collaboration. I frequently use it when I need to search for knowledge and it's convenient because I can switch languages if I don't understand something in a particular language.

### FreeCodeCamp

FreeCodeCamp is a non-profit organization that provides learning resources, an online community forum for discussion, and online publications with useful knowledge or information. Whenever I need to study new computer science topics like data structures or algorithms, or learn new languages like Python, C, or Java, I often use this site. I appreciate the fact that there is a site that freely shares learning materials like this.
